---
title: "How is the World Feeling Today? - Part One"
date: 2019-02-27
tags: [Python, AWS, Scala, SQL, Django]
header:
    overlay_image: "/assets/images/hitwft/globe.jpg"
excerpt: "A web application showing the sentiment of news stories all over the globe."
---
## Table of Contents

- [Overview](#heading-1)

- [Bootstrapping](#heading-1)

## <a name="heading-1"></a>Overview

Checking the news is limited to what location you are in and usually what the top stories of the day are for the source you enjoy looking at. What if news could be viewed in a different way? I thought it would be an interesting change if you could find news stories by looking at the overall sentiment in an area. Color gradients for sentiment could be shown for cities all around the globe so a user could select an area that looks highly positive or negative and see what top news stories might be causing this. I accomplished this using the very detailed database called GDELT.

GDELT, or the Global Database of Events, Language, and Tone, is a conglomeration of news stories and events dating back to 1979. GDELT summarizes over 300 categories, 60 attributes and thousands of emotions for millions of different themes. There are so many different aspects of this dataset that I can't explain them all. If you are interested, check out the source information at [here](https://www.gdeltproject.org/). 

The portion of the dataset that I focused on is called the GKG, or Global Knowledge Graph. GKG reads the emotions from every news report using some of the most sophisticated named entity and geocoding algorithms in existance. I am using this emotion data to sum sentiments of news stories by cities to overlay on an interactive map web app. This post will go through the pipeline I used to feed the data from the GDELT dataset into a postgGIS database. Part two will show how I took the data from the database with django and created an interactive web app.

## <a name="heading-1"></a>Bootstrapping